Create How to block push notifications (#508)
AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase: docs/guides/block-push-notifications.md

---

> title: How to block push notifications

Reviewer: также есть смысл написать про функции в адгарде, которые тоже блокируют уведомления

мак:
AdGuard → Preferences → Stealth Mode → Browser API → Block Push API

винда (тут надо уточнить по названиям настроек у кого-то с виндой):
AdGuard → Settings → Tracking protection → Browser API → Block Push API

sidebar_position: 9
---

If you're seeing annoying ads and popups in the bottom right corner of your screen, they're probably push notifications from your browser. While ad blockers can't stop them, you can easily disable them through your browser settings. Check out the step-by-step guide below to turn off these push notifications.

## On Google Chrome

1. **Open Chrome**. Click the three vertical dots in the top right corner of the browser and select *Settings*.
2. **Navigate to Notifications**: Go to *Privacy and security* → *Site settings* → *Notifications*.

> 3. **Disable Notifications**: Toggle *Sites can ask to send notifications* off, or manage site-specific settings by blocking or removing sites individually.

Reviewer: тут немного по-другому выглядит, нельзя выключить или включить эту штуку, можно только выбрать одну или другую опцию. лучше сказать:
In *Default behaviour*, select *Don't allow sites to send notifications*. Alternatively, you can manage site-specific settings in *Customised behaviours*.

> 4. **Customize further**: You can also add sites manually to the blocklist by clicking the *Add* button next to the *Block* section. All you have to do is enter the URL of the site you want to block from sending notifications.

Reviewer: не вижу секции Block в настройках. вижу Not allowed to send notifications и Allowed to send notifications
кстати там лучше не весь URL а домен вписывать
либо вообще этот пункт убрать

## In Firefox

1. Click the three horizontal lines in the top right corner of the navigation bar then select *Settings*.
2. Select *Privacy & Security* from the menu on the left.

> 3. Scroll down to the section *Permissions*, then click the button *Settings* next to *Notifications*. Next to each site, there is a dropdown menu where you can allow or block push notifications.

Reviewer: тот же коммент, что и в сафари — сайты в списке есть только если они уже делали запрос. возможно это стоит как-то учесть

> 4. Adjust the existing permissions: Remove or block specific websites or, to stop notifications on all previously approved websites, click *Remove All Websites*.

Reviewer: в 3 пункте уже есть про отдельные сайты, здесь можно написать про все сразу. плюс чтобы запретить запросы целиком, нужно нажать Block new requests asking to allow notifications

5. Click *Save Changes*.

## In Safari

> 1. Open Safari. Click "Safari" in the menu bar → *Preferences*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open Safari. Click *Safari* in the menu bar → *Settings*.
```

2. Go to the *Websites* tab.

> 3. Select "Notifications" from the left sidebar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select *Notifications* from the left sidebar.
```

> 4. Disable Specific Sites: Choose *Deny* for each site you want to block.

Reviewer: не получается повторить. вероятно сайты появляются в списке только если они уже сделали запрос на отправку уведомлений
вообще я бы тут написала аналогично хрому: отключите галочку у Allow websites to ask for permission to send notifications. Alternatively, можете отключить уведомления для каждого сайта по отдельности

Reviewer: а хотя наверное можно и так оставить, не критично. только чатгптшную приписку надо убрать в начале
```suggestion
4. Choose *Deny* for each site you want to block.
```

5. To block all requests, uncheck *Allow websites to ask for permission to send notifications*.

## In Microsoft Edge

> 1. Open Microsoft Edge. Click the three dots menu in the upper-right corner and select *Settings*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open Microsoft Edge. Click the three dots menu in the upper-right corner and select *Settings*.
```

2. In the left sidebar, click *Cookies and site permissions*.

> 3. Scroll down and click *Notifications* under Site Permissions.

Reviewer: а вот тут другая инструкция https://www.lifewire.com/manage-notifications-in-microsoft-edge-5104663
проверь вживую пожалуйста

Reviewer: скачала эдж, вроде ок, только у меня permissions с маленькой буквы

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Scroll down and click *Notifications* under *Site permissions*.
```

> 4. Toggle off *Ask before sending* to block all browser notifications within Microsoft Edge.

Reviewer: вот тут тоже можно ниже указать, что отдельные сайты тоже можно добавить в список. для этого в разделе Block надо добавить домен нужного сайта

> The process is similar in other browsers. Just head over to your browser settings, find the Security/Privacy section, and click Notifications. From there, you'll be able to customize your push notification settings and block any ads they may be showing you.

Reviewer: не уверена что стоит обобщать насчет секьюрити/прайваси. но можно предложить поиск по настройкам
и еще раз (либо в первый раз) сказать про адгард

5. You can also select *Block new requests asking to allow notifications* to stop all push notifications requests at once.
6. Click *Save Changes*.

## In Safari

1. Click *Safari* in the menu bar → *System Settings*.
2. Go to the *Websites* tab.
3. Select *Notifications* from the left sidebar.
4. To block all requests, uncheck *Allow websites to ask for permission to send notifications*. Alternatively, select *Deny* for each site you want to block individually.

## In Microsoft Edge

1. Click the three dots menu in the upper-right corner and select *Settings*.
2. In the left sidebar, click *Cookies and site permissions*.
3. Scroll down and click *Notifications* under *Site permissions*.
4. Toggle off *Ask before sending* to block all browser notifications within Microsoft Edge.
5. Alternatively, add domains to the *Block* section for each site you want to block.

## Blocking push notifications with AdGuard

To avoid similar ads in the future, you can also block push notifications directly from the AdGuard apps.

### On Windows

1. Open AdGuard. Go to *Settings* → *Stealth mode*.

> 2. Scroll down to the section *Browser API*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Scroll down to the *Browser API* section.
```

> 3. Enable the option *Block Push API*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enable *Block Push API*.
```

### On Mac

1. Open AdGuard. Go to *Preferences*.

> 2. On the tab *Stealth mode*, go to *Browser API*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the *Stealth Mode* tab, go to *Browser API*.
```

> 3. Enable the option *Block Push API*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enable *Block Push API*.
```

If you're seeing annoying ads and popups in the bottom right corner of your screen, they're probably push notifications from your browser. While ad blockers can't stop them, you can easily disable them through your browser settings. Check out the step-by-step guide below to turn off these push notifications.

## In Google Chrome

1. Click the three vertical dots in the top right corner of the browser and select *Settings*.
2. Go to *Privacy and security* → *Site settings* → *Notifications*.
3. In *Default behaviour*, select *Don't allow sites to send notifications*. Alternatively, you can manage site-specific settings in *Customised behaviours*.

## In Firefox

1. Click the three horizontal lines in the top right corner of the navigation bar, then select *Settings*.
2. Select *Privacy & Security* from the menu on the left.
3. Scroll down to the section *Permissions*, then click the button *Settings* next to *Notifications*.

> 4. To stop notifications on all previously approved websites, click *Remove All Websites*. Alternativelly, there is a dropdown menu next to each website,where you can block push notifications individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To stop notifications on all previously approved websites, click *Remove All Websites*. Alternatively, you can manage notifications for each website individually.
```

5. You can also select *Block new requests asking to allow notifications* to stop all push notifications requests at once.
6. Click *Save Changes*.

## In Safari

1. Click *Safari* in the menu bar → *System Settings*.
2. Go to the *Websites* tab.
3. Select *Notifications* from the left sidebar.
4. To block all requests, uncheck *Allow websites to ask for permission to send notifications*. Alternatively, select *Deny* for each site you want to block individually.

## In Microsoft Edge

1. Click the three dots menu in the upper-right corner and select *Settings*.
2. In the left sidebar, click *Cookies and site permissions*.
3. Scroll down and click *Notifications* under *Site permissions*.
4. Toggle off *Ask before sending* to block all browser notifications within Microsoft Edge.

> 5. Alternatively, add domains to the section *Block* for each site you want to block individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Alternatively, add domains to the *Block* section for each site you want to block.
```

## Blocking push notifications with AdGuard

> To avoid encountering similar ads in the future, you can also block push notifications directly on the AdGuard apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid similar ads in the future, you can also block push notifications directly from the AdGuard apps.
```
